
# XBeach-NSGAII Repository

## Overview
The XBeach-NSGAII repository is an extension of the Matlab-xbeach project, focusing on optimizing vegetation-seawall coastal defense system by integrating the output of XBeach models with the NSGA-II multi-objective optimization algorithm. This repository contains tools and scripts that leverage the strengths of both XBeach and NSGA-II to design robust and cost-effective coastal defenses.

## Background
Hybrid Vegetation-Seawall Coastal Systems are critical in mitigating the impacts of coastal hazards. By combining dynamic wave modeling (via XBeach) with a sophisticated optimization framework (NSGA-II), this project aims to refine coastal protection strategies. The `FFF_GEP_Robustness` included in this repository represents a polynomial generated by the Gene Expression Programming model, depicting the interaction of these systems under varying environmental conditions.

## Installation
Clone this repository using:
```
git clone https://github.com/erfan-amini/XBeach-NSGAII.git
```
Navigate into the repository directory:
```
cd XBeach-NSGAII
```
Install the required dependencies:
```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Usage
To run the optimization simulations, execute:
```
python optimize.py
```
Ensure you have the Matlab-xbeach output ready in the `data/` directory as this script utilizes those results to perform optimizations.

## Goals of Optimization
The primary goal of the optimization is to enhance the robustness and flood serviceability of hybrid vegetation-seawall systems against wave runup and overtopping while maintaining cost efficiency. This is achieved by utilizing the NSGA-II algorithm to explore a multitude of design variations, balancing performance against economic and environmental costs.

## Contributing
Contributions to the XBeach-NSGAII are welcome. Please read `CONTRIBUTING.md` for details on our code of conduct, and the process for submitting pull requests.

## License
This project is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International License. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## Acknowledgments
This project is funded, in part, by the US Coastal Research Program (USCRP) as administered by the US Army Corps of Engineers® (USACE), Department of Defense (Contract No. W912HZ22C0010). The content of the information provided in this publication does not necessarily reflect the position or the policy of the government, and no official endorsement should be inferred. The authors acknowledge the USACE and USCRP’s support of their effort to strengthen coastal academic programs and address coastal community needs in the United States.
